Js getting started more updates (#2652)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/js/getting-started/nodejs.md

---
title: Node.js
description: Get telemetry for your app in less than 5 minutes!
aliases: [/docs/js/getting_started/nodejs]
spelling: cSpell:ignore rolldice autoinstrumentation autoinstrumentations KHTML

> spelling: cSpell:ignore jsonlines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Example Application

The following example uses a basic [Express](https://expressjs.com/)
application. If you're not using Express, that's fine — this guide will also
work with Koa, Nest.JS

> [and more](/ecosystem/registry/?component=instrumentation&language=js)

Reviewer: This should be updated to match what we agreed to in https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/pull/2653#discussion_r1184192841.

Author: done

For more elaborate examples, see [examples](/docs/instrumentation/js/examples/).

### Dependencies

> To begin, set up an empty package.json in a new directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, set up an empty `package.json` in a new directory:
```

```shell

> npm init -f

Reviewer 2: -f is typically not recommended

Author: I don't want people to go through all the prompts `npm init` gives you just for going through the tutorial. Reading through the help of `npm init` real quick an at least safer version of it is `npm init -y`:

yes: `Automatically answer "yes" to any prompts that npm might print on the command line.` 

force: `Removes various protections against unfortunate side effects, common mistakes, unnecessary performance degradation, and malicious input.`

Would that work?

Reviewer 2: yeah that seems reasonable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
npm init -y
```

{{< /tabpane >}}
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> ### Create the sample HTTP Server

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
### Create and launch an HTTP Server
```

> Create a file called `app.ts|js` and add the following code to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file named `app.ts|js` and add the following code to it:
```

Reviewer 2: Since this is a beginners guide i think it would be good to avoid potentially confusing syntax like that.

```suggestion
Create a file named `app.ts` (or `app.js` if not using typescript) and add the following code to it:
```

Reviewer: Good point, I completely agree.

Author: good call @dyladan.

@chalin yes the app should be terminated before moving on

The instrumentation setup and configuration must be run _before_ your
application code. One tool commonly used for this task is the
[--require](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#-r---require-module) flag.

> Create a file named `instrumentation.ts|js`, which will contain your

Reviewer 2: same confusing syntax

Author: TY, I think we have that syntax in a few other documents as well, let me hunt them down

  "status": { "code": 1 },
  "events": []
}
```

</details>

> The span generated for you tracks the lifetime of a request to the `/rolldice`
> route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated span tracks the lifetime of a request to the `/rolldice` route.
```

> Send a few more requests to the endpoint, and then wait for a little bit and
> you'll get metrics printed out to the console, such as the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a few more requests to the endpoint. After a moment,
you'll see metrics in the console output, such as the following:
```

<details>
<summary>View example output</summary>

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

Reviewer 2: maybe there is a jsonlines option?

Reviewer: @svrnm, maybe try `jsonlines` (I'd never tried that one before). If it doesn't work go with which ever option you prefer.

Author: I put in `jsonlines`, also not sure if this is a legal argument although it is not screaming at me in red anymore in VSCode, I would say that's a win

  "status": { "code": 1 },
  "events": []
}
```

</details>

The generated span tracks the lifetime of a request to the `/rolldice` route.

Send a few more requests to the endpoint. After a moment, you'll see metrics in
the console output, such as the following:

<details>
<summary>View example output</summary>

> ```jsonlines

Reviewer: The block lang `jsonlines` results in no highlighting. We get best results with `yaml`:

```suggestion
```yaml
```
